Wi-Fi networks allow you to get
online without the use of a
wired Ethernet connection in
places like your home, Oregon
office, or in hotels,
restaurants, shopping malls, and
so on.
Let's take a look at how to
connect to a Wi-Fi network on a
Windows 10 computer.
The first step is to check your
Wi-Fi status, which you can see
in the right hand side of the
taskbar at the bottom of your
screen.
Notice this icon that looks like
a globe, which you can think of
as representing the World Wide
Web.
If I roll my mouse over, that
icon can see a message telling
me I'm not currently connected
to a network and it says no
connections are available.
Now I know for a fact that there
are Wi-Fi networks where I am
right now, so this robably means
that the Wi-Fi on my computer is
turned off, so I need to turn it
back on.
And I can do that simly by
clicking this icon and here I'll
click Wi-Fi O I've reenabled
Wi-Fi on my computer and now I
see a list of nearby Wi-Fi
networks along with their signal
strength.
The more bars you see in the
icon next to the network, the
stronger the connection.
Generally, the stronger the
connection, the faster and more
consistent the Wi-Fi erformance
will be.
O You can see I only have a
couple bars down on this network
here, a few more here, but here
at the top we see full strength
Wi-Fi signals.
In most cases you'll want to
connect to a network whose name
you recognize.
This might be your home Oregon
office network or a network in
the coffee shop you're sitting
in.
You'll also usually see the word
secured under the Wi-Fi network
name, indicating that the
network is password protected.
You can connect to networks that
are labeled open, but they'll
often be set U with other
security measures that require
you to validate your identity
before allowing you to fully
connect.
As a rule of thumb, you
shouldn't connect to unknown
networks as a matter of
etiquette, but also for security
reasons.
O in this case, I do know that
this one in articular is a
trusted network, so I'll
selected it.
If I want to automatically
connect to this network in the
future, I'll make sure Connect
Automatically is checked and
then I'll click Connect and I'm
prompted to enter the password.
If you're connecting to your own
network, you should know the
password.
If you're connecting to a Wi-Fi
network at a business or a shop,
you may have to ask for the
password.
For security, the password is
dislayed as dots, but if you
want, you can check that you're
typing it correctly by clicking
and holding on this eye icon,
and when you release that
button, it'll go back to being
dots.
Once you enter the password,
click Next, deending on how your
computer's configured.
You may see this message asking
if you want your computer to be
seen by other computers on the
network.
If you're connecting to your
home Oregon office network,
click yes.
Being able to see other comuters
on your network makes it easy to
transfer files between them.
And now I see the message that
I'm connected to my Wi-Fi
network so I can open U my
Internet browser and start
visiting websites.